well howdy there internet people
Hezbollah again so tonight's gonna be a
little bit different this is more like
my therapy session to be honest because
just like every other expert on
political violence or counter terrorism
in the world I felt like I got Cassandra
complex right now if you're not familiar
with it Cassandra was a beautiful woman
daughter of the king of Troy and while
Apollo loved her he gave her the gift of
prophecy when she rejected his advances
he said well you've got the gift of
prophecy but nobody's gonna listen to
you and that's the way everybody in that
field bills right about now because
politicians and those in the
establishment who stand to gain from
defeating Isis are still claiming Isis
is defeated when it's not and that just
makes them more dangerous Baghdady the
leader he released a video today well
yesterday by the time you're watching
this and the take coming out of the
establishment circles was sickening they
saw what they wanted to see in it not
what was there now on April 6th
and I released a video is toast the
defeat of Isis I suggest you go watch it
if you don't when I give you a synopsis
Isis isn't dead using the land held by
an insurgent organization that's really
a terrorist organization at heart as a
metric of determining their potency is
stupid it is stupid
holding land requires resources and when
you take that away and they don't have
to expend those resources to defend that
land well then they can go on the
offensive
their leadership also disappears blends
away they spread out heading to other
areas of operation to begin work
the Islamic state has shown repeatedly
that it can attack far far beyond its
footprint and you know then I discussed
those that were killed after the
president said the Islamic state was
defeated and then I discussed the rumor
coming out of Iraq about attacks on
churches April 6th before the easter
attacks
now there was a time when yeah I was up
to speed on all of this and I was really
good that was a long time ago that was
more than a decade ago so my question
and the question everybody should be
asking and to be clear I'm not the only
person who pointed all of this out every
political violence expert in the world
that I saw comment on this said the
exact same thing but the question
everybody should be asking is if there
has been that's been out of that field
of study for 10 years could list down to
the letter what was going to happen
where was US intelligence what was the
establishment doing this was an utter
failure of US intelligence complete
failure and what they were doing they
were listening to signal intercepts and
looking at satellite photos that's what
they were doing because that's what it's
all about now that is what it is all
about and that technology it's great for
spying on you
doesn't doesn't help with terrorism
number one doesn't provide intent
doesn't let you know what they're gonna
do a rumor coming out of Iraq that lets
you know what they're gonna do yeah the
$50 informant in Basra is worth more
than that 50 million dollars satellite
so that's one reason it does not give
you intent just let you know what's
happening but by then it's too late
the other reason it doesn't help
is that Baghdadi's smart he doesn't use
electronics none of these guys do and
our policy is to kill terrorists when we
catch them in the open call in a drone
that's great except for the fact that
he's probably communicating with his
organization via courier really really
hard to question somebody after Hellfire
missile missile see the thing is though
the US establishment knows that Baghdad
is smart they know he's smart because
they had him in custody 2003-2004
somewhere around there he got interned
to Camp Bucca and they knew he was smart
they used him well they thought they
were using him he was really using them
they shuttled him around to different
prisons to help keep the peace now in
reality he's building the Islamic state
and we don't know why exactly he got
released but we do know that by 2010
he's running the Islamic state that's
what we know and yeah he just released
that video and the take coming out of
Washington is that well he's so humble
now because of this horrific defeat that
he suffered and he's talking about these
operatives he has in this country in
these various countries as a way to show
that they're still transnational and
then he had this great propaganda where
he's handed these these files that have
the names of other countries on them
yeah maybe maybe that said or maybe the
guy who doesn't use electronics just got
you to give everybody his orders
yeah that video is very different
Baghdady is a very boisterous man and
yeah he's aged since the last time we
saw him but that doesn't change his
personality what's he doing in this
video
sitting traditional Arab style looks
familiar doesn't it really does up
against a wall framed looks exactly like
a bin Laden video doesn't it and right
beside him what's there a cut down a K
exactly like the bin Laden videos and so
what we can expect as much of al Qaeda
style attacks that's what we can expect
in the future
bombings machine gun attacks probably
some more of the vehicles driving into
crowds that's what's coming where those
countries that he listed are probably
the base of operations not to target
they could be the target but that'd be
pretty bold even for him my guess is
that's where these guys are currently at
training to conduct these attacks just a
guess
and then those file folders the people
that he has fighting for him that aren't
terrorists quality they don't have that
tradecraft training they're just normal
insurgents and they now know where to go
listed on those file folders
that's where we're headed that video
showed intent in the read coming out of
Washington is that he's beat possibly
the dumbest thing the President of the
United States has done since he took
office and that's a long list to be at
the top of his declare the Islamic state
defeated because now he's the underdog
again
he doesn't have to stage any spectacular
attacks he did but he doesn't have to
anymore because you've lowered the
expectations for him he made him the
underdog it's jihad those foreign
fighters they're coming they're coming
to every country that was on one of
those folders and you guys in your quest
for propaganda to show him as being
humble drew attention to it you've made
sure that everybody saw his orders it
might be time to step back from
technology and and start looking at
intent again get some real human
intelligence going on unless of course
that's not really the goal anymore
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night